Using rewritten query for retrieval and prompt building.
Original query: customer due diligence obligations
Rewritten query used for RAG:
Task:
You work as a senior AML compliance auditor analysing legal obligations in the Hong Kong Anti-Money Laundering and 
Counter-Terrorist Financing Ordinance (Cap. 615) and ERC-3643 concepts.
Based on the user's query, you must extract relevant, enforceable obligations
from the legal text provided.

User query:
"""customer due diligence obligations"""

Instructions:
- Focus only on obligations that are operational and enforceable.
- Ignore general background or high-level policy statements unless needed.
- Base all findings strictly on the provided text.

Required output format (JSON):
[
  {
    "obligation_id": "CDD-001",
    "trigger": "<when the obligation is activated>",
    "action": "<what must be done>",
    "subject": "<who must act>",
    "references": ["<section or paragraph number>"]
  },
  ...
]

Return ONLY the JSON array, with no extra explanation.
Prompt (no LLM call performed):
Act as a lead auditor and virtual compliance controller with deep knowledge of the HKMA Anti-Money Laundering and 
Counter-Financing of Terrorism Ordinance (Cap. 615) and smart contract frameworks such as ERC-3643. Your goal is to 
extract legitimate and enforceable obligations from the provided Cap. 615 sections that could be audited in smart 
contracts. Work ONLY from the supplied context.

Task: Extract enforceable obligations relevant to: "Task:
You work as a senior AML compliance auditor analysing legal obligations in the Hong Kong Anti-Money Laundering and 
Counter-Terrorist Financing Ordinance (Cap. 615) and ERC-3643 concepts.
Based on the user's query, you must extract relevant, enforceable obligations
from the legal text provided.

User query:
"""customer due diligence obligations"""

Instructions:
- Focus only on obligations that are operational and enforceable.
- Ignore general background or high-level policy statements unless needed.
- Base all findings strictly on the provided text.

Required output format (JSON):
[
  {
    "obligation_id": "CDD-001",
    "trigger": "<when the obligation is activated>",
    "action": "<what must be done>",
    "subject": "<who must act>",
    "references": ["<section or paragraph number>"]
  },
  ...
]

Return ONLY the JSON array, with no extra explanation."

Context:
[1] or 2 to, the Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance (Cap. 455);
1 or 2 to, the Organized and Serious Crimes Ordinance (Cap. 455);
(f) whether the person has a conviction in a place outside Hong Kong—
 (i) for an offence in respect of an act that would have constituted an offence specified in paragraph (e) had it been 
done in Hong Kong;
 (ii) for an offence relating to money laundering or terrorist financing; or
 (iii) for an offence for which it was necessary to find that the person had acted fraudulently, corruptly or 
dishonestly;
 (g) whether the person has failed to comply with a requirement imposed under this Ordinance.
 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), in determining whether a person is a fit and proper person, for the purposes of 
any provision of this Part, the Commission may take into account—
 (a) a decision made in respect of the person—
 (i) by any relevant authority; or
 (ii) by a regulator (as defined by section 13A) of a jurisdiction outside Hong Kong that, in the Commission’s opinion,
performs a function similar to the functions of the Commission under this Ordinance or the Securities and Futures 
Ordinance (Cap. 571);
 (b) any information in the possession of the Commission, whether provided by the person or not, relating to—
 (i) any other person who is or is to be employed by, or associated with, the person for the purpose of providing a VA 
service;
 (ii) any other person who will be acting for or on behalf of the person in relation to the provision of a VA service; 
or
 (iii) where the person is a corporation in a group of companies—
 (A) any other corporation in the same group of companies; or
 (B) any ultimate owner or officer of the corporation or any corporation referred to in sub-subparagraph (A);
 (c) whether the person has established effective internal control procedures and risk management systems to ensure the
person’s compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements under any provision of this Ordinance; and
 (d) the state of affairs of any other business that the person carries on or proposes to carry on.
 (3) Where subsections (1) and (2) apply to a person that is a corporation, references to the person in the paragraphs 
of those subsections include, not only the corporation, but also any officer of the corporation.
 (4) Subsection (1)(c) does not apply in determining whether a person, being an ultimate owner of a corporation 
applying for, or holding, a licence to provide a VA service, is a fit and proper person to be associated with the 
business of providing the VA service.
 (5) In this section—
group of companies (公司集團) means any 2 or more corporations one of which is the holding company of the other or 
others (as the case requires).
Subdivision 3—Licensed Provider
53ZRK. Application for and grant of licence
 (1) The Commission may, on application, grant to the applicant a licence to provide a VA service.
 (2) The application must be—
 (a) made to the Commission in the specified manner; and
 (b) accompanied by the prescribed fee.
 (3) The Commission may grant a licence to an applicant only if—
 (a) the applicant is a corporation that is—
 (i) a company as defined by section 2(1) of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622); or
 (ii) a registered non-Hong Kong company; and (Amended 14 of 2025 s. 270)
 (b) the Commission is satisfied that—
 (i) the applicant is a fit and proper person to be licensed for the VA service;
 (ii) not less than 2 persons are applying to be responsible officers of the applicant and each person is a fit and 
proper person to be associated with the business of providing the VA service;
 (iii) each director of the applicant, not falling within subparagraph (ii), is a fit and proper person to be 
associated with the business of providing the VA service;
 (iv) if there is an ultimate owner in relation to the corporation—the ultimate owner is a fit and proper person to be 
associated with the business of providing the VA service; and
 (v) an application has been lodged under section 53ZRR for approval of premises to be used by the applicant for 
keeping records or documents required under this Part.
 (4) On granting a licence under this section, the Commission may impose any conditions on the licence.
 (5) Without limiting subsection (4), the Commission may impose on a licence conditions on—
 (a) financial resources;
 (b) knowledge and experience;
 (c) risk management policies and procedures;
 (d) anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing policies and procedures;
 (e) management of client assets;
 (f) soundness of the business;
 (g) financial reporting and disclosure;
 (h) virtual asset listing and trading policies;
 (i) prevention of market manipulation and abusive activities;
 (j) avoidance of conflicts of interest;
 (k) keeping of accounts and records by licensed providers and their associated entities;
 (l) provision of contract notes, receipts, statements of account and notifications by licensed providers and their 
associated entities;
 (m) financial statements and other documents, and the auditor’s report;
 (n) business conduct of licensed providers and their licensed representatives;
 (o) notification of changes; and
 (p) cybersecurity.
 (6) Without limiting subsections (4), (5) and (8), it is a condition of a licence granted under this section for 
providing a VA service that there is at least one responsible officer of the licensed provider who is available at all 
times to supervise the business of the VA service.
 (7) A licensed provider must not, when providing a VA service, use a name other than the name specified in the 
licence.
 (8) In relation to a licence of a person, the Commission may, at any time, if satisfied that it is reasonable to do so
in the circumstances—
 (a) impose any new conditions;
 (b) amend any previously imposed conditions; or
 (c) remove any previously imposed conditions.
 (9)

---

[1] to the Securities and Futures Ordinance (Cap. 571).
is satisfied that the records are relevant to an ongoing criminal or other investigation carried out by it; or (b) the 
records are relevant to any other purposes as specified by the relevant authority or the regulatory body in the notice.
(5) A financial institution or a DNFBP to whom a notice is given under subsection (4) must keep the relevant records 
for the period specified in the notice. (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) 21. Manner in which records are to be kept Records 
required to be kept under section 20 of this Schedule must be kept in the following manner— (a) if the record consists 
of a document, either— (i) the original of the document must be kept; or (ii) a copy of the document must be kept 
either on microfilm or in the database of a computer; or (b) if the record consists of data or information, a record of
the data or information must be kept either on microfilm or in the database of a computer. Part 4 Miscellaneous 22. 
Duties extended to branches and subsidiary undertakings outside Hong Kong (1) A financial institution that is 
incorporated in Hong Kong or is a re-domiciled entity must ensure that— (Amended 14 of 2025 s. 273) (a) its branches; 
and (b) its subsidiary undertakings that carry on the same business as a financial institution in a place outside Hong 
Kong, have procedures in place to ensure compliance with, to the extent permitted by the law of that place, 
requirements similar to those imposed under Parts 2 and 3 of this Schedule that are applicable to the financial 
institution. (2) If the law of the place at which a branch or subsidiary undertaking of a financial institution carries
on business does not permit the application of any procedures relating to any of the requirements referred to in 
subsection (1), the financial institution must— (a) inform the relevant authority accordingly; and (b) take additional 
measures to effectively mitigate the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing faced by the branch or subsidiary
undertaking as a result of its inability to comply with the requirement. (2A) A DNFBP that is incorporated in Hong Kong
or is a re-domiciled entity must ensure that— (Amended 14 of 2025 s. 273) (a) its branches; and (b) its subsidiary 
undertakings that carry on the same business as a DNFBP in a place outside Hong Kong, have procedures in place to 
ensure compliance with, to the extent permitted by the law of that place, requirements similar to those imposed under 
Parts 2 and 3 of this Schedule that are applicable to the DNFBP. (Added 4 of 2018 s. 26) (2B) If the law of the place 
at which a branch or a subsidiary undertaking of a DNFBP carries on business does not permit the application of any 
procedures relating to any of the requirements referred to in subsection (2A), the DNFBP must— (a) inform the relevant 
authority, or if applicable, the relevant regulatory body, accordingly; and (b) take additional measures to effectively
mitigate the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing faced by the branch or subsidiary undertaking as a result
of its inability to comply with the requirement. (Added 4 of 2018 s. 26) (3) In this section— branch (分行), in 
relation to a financial institution or a DNFBP, means a branch of the financial institution or the DNFBP outside Hong 
Kong at which it carries on a business similar to that carried on by the financial institution or the DNFBP, whether or
not the business of the branch is limited by the laws or regulations of the place in which the branch is situated and 
whether or not the branch is referred to as an agency in that place; (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) subsidiary undertaking 
(附屬企業) is to be construed in accordance with

---

[1] to the Securities and Futures Ordinance (Cap. 571).
1 to the Securities and Futures Ordinance (Cap. 571). 5. Duty to continuously monitor business relationships (1) A 
financial institution or a DNFBP must continuously monitor the business relationship with a customer by— (Amended 4 of 
2018 s. 26) (a) reviewing from time to time documents, data and information relating to the customer that have been 
obtained by the financial institution or the DNFBP for the purpose of complying with the requirements imposed under 
this Part to ensure that they are up-to-date and relevant; (b) conducting appropriate scrutiny of transactions carried 
out for the customer to ensure that they are consistent with the financial institution’s or the DNFBP’s knowledge of 
the customer and the customer’s business and risk profile, and with the financial institution’s or the DNFBP’s 
knowledge of the source of the customer’s funds; and (c) identifying transactions that— (i) are complex, unusually 
large in amount or of an unusual pattern; and (ii) have no apparent economic or lawful purpose, and examining the 
background and purposes of those transactions and setting out the findings in writing. (2) When a financial institution
or a DNFBP carries out the duty under subsection (1)(a) in relation to a pre-existing customer before the financial 
institution or the DNFBP first carries out the customer due diligence measures in relation to the customer in 
accordance with the requirements under this Part, the financial institution or the DNFBP is only required to review the
documents, data and information relating to the customer that are held by the financial institution or the DNFBP at the
time the financial institution or the DNFBP conducts the review. (3) If— (a) a customer of a financial institution or a
DNFBP has not been physically present for identification purposes; (b) a customer, or a beneficial owner of a customer,
of a financial institution or a DNFBP is known to the financial institution or the DNFBP, from publicly known 
information or information in the financial institution’s or the DNFBP’s possession, to be a politically exposed 
person; or (c) a customer, or a beneficial owner of a customer, of a financial institution or a DNFBP is involved in a 
situation referred to in section 15 of this Schedule, the financial institution or the DNFBP must, in monitoring the 
business relationship with the customer under this section, take additional measures to compensate for any risk of 
money laundering or terrorist financing that may be caused by the fact that the customer or beneficial owner is a 
customer or beneficial owner falling within paragraph (a), (b) or (c). (4) Subsection (3)(a) does not apply in relation
to a customer of a financial institution or a DNFBP if the financial institution or the DNFBP has carried out the 
measure referred to in section 2(1)(a) or (ab) of this Schedule in relation to the customer on the basis of data or 
information provided by a recognized digital identification system. (Added 15 of 2022 s. 33) (5) Subsection (3)(b) does
not apply in relation to a customer, or a beneficial owner of a customer, of a financial institution or a DNFBP if the 
financial institution or the DNFBP is satisfied that— (a) the customer or the beneficial owner of the customer is a 
former politically exposed person; and (b) the former politically exposed person does not present a high risk of money 
laundering or terrorist financing based on an appropriate risk assessment. (Added 15 of 2022 s. 33) (Amended 4 of 2018 
s. 26) 6. Provisions relating to pre-existing customers (1) In relation to a pre-existing customer who is not a 
customer to whom section 7 of this Schedule applies, a financial institution or a DNFBP must, in addition to the 
situations specified in section 3(1)(d) and (e) of this Schedule, carry out the customer due diligence measures when— 
(Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) (a) a transaction takes place with regard to the customer that— (i) is, by virtue of the 
amount or nature of the transaction, unusual or suspicious; or (ii) is not consistent with the financial institution’s 
or the DNFBP’s knowledge of the customer or the customer’s business or risk profile, or with the financial 
institution’s or the DNFBP’s knowledge of the source of the customer’s funds; or (b) a material change occurs in the 
way in which the customer’s account is operated. (2) If a financial institution or a DNFBP is unable to comply with 
subsection (1), the financial institution or the DNFBP must terminate the business relationship with the customer as 
soon as reasonably practicable. (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) 7. Provisions relating to pre-existing respondent banks (1) 
This section applies to a customer (referred to in this section as respondent bank) of an authorized institution— (a) 
that is an institution located in a place outside Hong Kong carrying on a business similar to that carried on by an 
authorized institution; and (b) with which the first-mentioned authorized institution has established a correspondent 
banking relationship before the date of commencement of this Ordinance. (2) An authorized institution must terminate 
its correspondent banking relationship with a respondent bank on the date of commencement of this Ordinance unless— (a)
it had carried out the measures set out in section 14(1) of this Schedule in relation to the respondent bank at some 
time before that date and was at that time satisfied that the anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing 
controls of the respondent bank were adequate and effective; (b) it had documented its responsibilities and the 
responsibilities of the respondent bank before that date; and (c) it was satisfied at some time before that date that, 
in respect of those of the respondent bank’s customers who could directly operate the accounts it maintained for the 
respondent bank, the respondent bank— (i) had verified the identities of those customers, and would continuously 
monitor its business relationships with those customers, in accordance with requirements similar to those imposed under
this Schedule; and (ii) was able to provide to it, on request, the documents, data or information obtained by the 
respondent bank in relation to those customers in accordance with requirements similar to those imposed under this 
Schedule. Division 2—Special Requirements 8. Requirements in this Division are additional to those in sections 3 and 5 
of this Schedule In addition to complying with the requirements under sections 3 and 5 of this Schedule, a financial 
institution or a DNFBP must also comply with the requirements under this Division. (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) 9. Special
requirements when customer is not physically present for identification purposes (1) If a customer has not been 
physically present for identification purposes, a financial institution or a DNFBP must carry out at least one of the 
following measures— (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26; 15 of 2022 s. 33) (a) further verifying the customer’s identity on the 
basis of documents, data or information referred to in section 2(1)(a) or (ab) of this Schedule but not previously used
for the purposes of verification of the customer’s identity under that section; (b) taking supplementary measures to 
verify information relating to the customer that has been obtained by the financial institution or the DNFBP; (c) 
ensuring that the payment or, if there is more than

---

[1] to the Securities and Futures Ordinance (Cap. 571).
(a) at a group level— (i) by a relevant authority; or (ii) by an authority in an equivalent jurisdiction that performs,
in relation to the holding company or the head office of the financial institution, functions similar to those of a 
relevant authority under this Ordinance. (Added 4 of 2018 s. 26) (4) A financial institution or a DNFBP that carries 
out a customer due diligence measure by means of an intermediary must— (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) (a) immediately after 
the intermediary has carried out that measure, obtain from the intermediary the data or information that the 
intermediary has obtained in the course of carrying out that measure, but nothing in this paragraph requires the 
financial institution or the DNFBP to obtain at the same time from the intermediary a copy of any document, or a record
of any data or information, that is obtained by the intermediary in the course of carrying out that measure; (b) ensure
that the intermediary will, if requested by the financial institution or the DNFBP within the period referred to in 
section 20(2) or (3) of this Schedule, as the case requires, provide to the financial institution or the DNFBP a copy 
of any document, or a record of any data or information, obtained by the intermediary in the course of carrying out 
that measure as soon as reasonably practicable after receiving the request; and (c) in the case of a financial 
institution, if the intermediary is a specified intermediary under subsection (3)(d), take reasonable measures to 
mitigate the risk of money laundering or terrorist financing involved. (Added 4 of 2018 s. 26) (5) (Repealed 4 of 2018 
s. 26) (6) Nothing in this section prevents a financial institution or a DNFBP from carrying out a customer due 
diligence measure by an agent but such a financial institution or a DNFBP remains liable under this Ordinance for a 
failure to carry out that customer due diligence measure. (7) In this section— group of companies (公司集團) has the 
meaning given by section 2(1) of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622); group policy (集團政策) means a policy of the 
group of companies to which the financial institution belongs that applies to— (a) the financial institution; and (b) 
the relevant related foreign financial institution; holding company (控權公司), in relation to a financial institution,
means a holding company within the meaning of section 13 of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622); intermediary financial 
institution (中介人金融機構) means a financial institution mentioned in subsection (3)(b); related foreign financial 
institution (相關外地金融機構), in relation to a financial institution, means another institution that— (a) carries on,
in a place outside Hong Kong, a business similar to that carried on by an intermediary financial institution; and (b) 
falls within any of the following descriptions— (i) it is within the same group of companies as the financial 
institution; (ii) if the financial institution is incorporated in Hong Kong or is a re-domiciled entity, it is a branch
of the financial institution; (Amended 14 of 2025 s. 273) (iii) if the financial institution is incorporated outside 
Hong Kong and is not a re-domiciled entity— (Amended 14 of 2025 s. 273) (A) it is the head office of the financial 
institution; or (B) it is a branch of the head office of the financial institution. (Replaced 4 of 2018 s. 26) (Amended
E.R. 2 of 2014; 4 of 2018 s. 26) 19. Financial institutions and DNFBPs to establish procedures (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 
26) (1) A financial institution or a DNFBP must establish and maintain effective procedures for determining whether a 
customer or a beneficial owner of a customer is a politically exposed person. (2) A financial institution that carries 
out wire transfers must establish and maintain effective procedures for identifying and handling wire transfers in 
relation to which section 12(5) of this Schedule has not been complied with. (2A) A financial institution that carries 
out virtual asset transfers must establish and maintain effective procedures for identifying and handling virtual asset
transfers in relation to which section 13A(4) of this Schedule has not been complied with. (Added 15 of 2022 s. 33) (3)
A financial institution or a DNFBP must, in respect of each kind of customer, business relationship, product and 
transaction, establish and maintain effective procedures not inconsistent with this Ordinance for the purpose of 
carrying out the duties under sections 3, 4, 5, 9, 10 and 15 of this Schedule. (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) Part 3 
Record-keeping Requirements 20. Duty to keep records (1) A financial institution or a DNFBP must— (Amended 4 of 2018 s.
26) (a) in relation to each transaction the financial institution or the DNFBP carries out, keep the original or a copy
of the documents, and a record of the data and information, obtained in connection with the transaction in accordance 
with Part 2 of this Schedule; and (b) in relation to each customer, keep— (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) (i) the original or
a copy of the documents, and a record of the data and information, obtained in the course of identifying and verifying 
the identity of the customer or any beneficial owner of the customer in accordance with Part 2 of this Schedule; and 
(ii) the original or a copy of the files relating to the customer’s account and business correspondence with the 
customer and any beneficial owner of the customer. (2) Records required to be kept under subsection (1)(a) must be kept
for a period of at least 5 years beginning on the date on which the transaction is completed, regardless of whether the
business relationship ends during that period. (3) Records required to be kept under subsection (1)(b) must be kept 
throughout the continuance of the business relationship with the customer and for a period of at least 5 years 
beginning on the date on which the business relationship ends. (3A) Records required to be kept under subsection (1)(b)
for an occasional transaction that is carried out in any of the circumstances set out in section 3(1)(b), (1A) and (1B)
of this Schedule must be kept for a period of at least 5 years beginning on the date on which the occasional 
transaction is completed. (Added 15 of 2022 s. 33) (4) A relevant authority or a regulatory body may, by notice in 
writing to a financial institution or a DNFBP, require the financial institution or the DNFBP to keep the records 
relating to a specified transaction or customer for a period specified by the relevant authority or the regulatory body
that is longer than that referred to in subsection (2) or (3), as the case requires, if— (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) (a) 
the relevant authority or the regulatory body is satisfied that the records are relevant to an ongoing criminal or 
other investigation carried out by it; or (b) the records are relevant to any other purposes as specified by the 
relevant authority or the regulatory body in the notice. (5) A financial institution or a DNFBP to whom a notice is 
given under subsection (4) must keep the relevant records for the period specified in the notice. (Amended 4 of 2018 s.
26) 21. Manner in which records

---

[2]
2018 s. 26) 3. When customer due diligence measures must be carried out (1) Subject to section 4 of this Schedule, a 
financial institution or a DNFBP must carry out customer due diligence measures in relation to a customer in the 
following circumstances— (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) (a) subject to subsection (2), before establishing a business 
relationship with the customer; (b) before carrying out for the customer an occasional transaction involving an amount 
equal to or above $120,000 or an equivalent amount in any other currency, whether the transaction is carried out in a 
single operation or in several operations that appear to the financial institution or the DNFBP to be linked; (c) 
(Repealed 15 of 2022 s. 33) (d) when the financial institution or the DNFBP suspects that the customer or the 
customer’s account is involved in money laundering or terrorist financing; (e) when the financial institution or the 
DNFBP doubts the veracity or adequacy of any information previously obtained for the purpose of identifying the 
customer or for the purpose of verifying the customer’s identity. (1A) Subject to section 4 of this Schedule and 
despite subsection (1)(b), a financial institution must carry out customer due diligence measures in relation to a 
customer before carrying out for the customer an occasional transaction that is— (a) a wire transfer involving an 
amount equal to or above $8,000 or an equivalent amount in any other currency; or (b) a virtual asset transfer 
involving virtual assets that amount to no less than $8,000, whether the transaction is carried out in a single 
operation or in several operations that appear to the financial institution to be linked. (Added 15 of 2022 s. 33) (1B)
Subject to section 4 of this Schedule and despite subsection (1)(b), a licensed VAS provider must carry out customer 
due diligence measures in relation to a customer before carrying out for the customer an occasional transaction that— 
(a) involves an amount equal to or above $8,000 or an equivalent amount in any other currency; and (b) is not a wire 
transfer or a virtual asset transfer, whether the transaction is carried out in a single operation or in several 
operations that appear to the licensed VAS provider to be linked. (Added 15 of 2022 s. 33) (2) Despite subsection 
(1)(a), a financial institution or a DNFBP may verify the identity of a customer and any beneficial owner of the 
customer after establishing a business relationship with the customer if— (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) (a) this is 
necessary not to interrupt the normal conduct of business with regard to the customer; and (b) any risk of money 
laundering or terrorist financing that may be caused by carrying out the verification after establishing the business 
relationship is effectively managed. (3) A financial institution or a DNFBP that carries out verification after 
establishing a business relationship with a customer under subsection (2) must complete the verification as soon as 
reasonably practicable after establishing the business relationship. (4) If a financial institution or a DNFBP is 
unable to comply with subsection (1), (1A), (1B) or (3), the financial institution or the DNFBP— (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 
26; 15 of 2022 s. 33) (a) must not establish a business relationship or carry out any occasional transaction with that 
customer; or (b) if the financial institution or the DNFBP has already established a business relationship with that 
customer, must terminate the business relationship as soon as reasonably practicable. (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) 4. 
Simplified customer due diligence (1) In any of the circumstances set out in section 3(1)(a) and (b), (1A) and (1B) of 
this Schedule, a financial institution or a DNFBP may, instead of carrying out all the customer due diligence measures,
carry out only the measures set out in section 2(1)(a), (ab), (c) and (d) of this Schedule in relation to a customer if
the financial institution or the DNFBP has reasonable grounds to believe that the customer falls within subsection (3).
(Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26; 15 of 2022 s. 33) (2) If a customer of a financial institution or a DNFBP not falling within 
subsection (3) has in the customer’s beneficial ownership chain an entity that falls within that subsection, the 
financial institution or the DNFBP is not required, when carrying out the measure set out in section 2(1)(b) of this 
Schedule in respect of the beneficial owners in that chain in any of the circumstances set out in section 3(1)(a) and 
(b), (1A) and (1B) of this Schedule, to identify, or verify the identities of, the beneficial owners of that entity or 
of any person in that chain beyond that entity. (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26; 15 of 2022 s. 33) (3) The customer is— (a) a 
financial institution; (b) an institution that— (i) is incorporated or established in an equivalent jurisdiction; (ii) 
carries on a business similar to that carried on by a financial institution; (iii) has measures in place to ensure 
compliance with requirements similar to those imposed under this Schedule; and (iv) is supervised for compliance with 
those requirements by an authority in that jurisdiction that performs functions similar to those of any of the relevant
authorities; (c) a corporation listed on any stock exchange; (d) an investment vehicle where the person responsible for
carrying out measures that are similar to the customer due diligence measures in relation to all the investors of the 
investment vehicle is— (i) a financial institution; (ii) an institution that— (A) is incorporated or established in 
Hong Kong; (B) has measures in place to ensure compliance with requirements similar to those imposed under this 
Schedule; and (C) is supervised for compliance with those requirements; or (iii) an institution that— (A) is 
incorporated or established in an equivalent jurisdiction; (B) has measures in place to ensure compliance with 
requirements similar to those imposed under this Schedule; and (C) is supervised for compliance with those 
requirements; (e) the Government or any public body in Hong Kong; or (f) the government of an equivalent jurisdiction 
or a body in an equivalent jurisdiction that performs functions similar to those of a public body. (4) In any of the 
circumstances set out in section 3(1)(a) and (b), (1A) and (1B) of this Schedule, a financial institution or a DNFBP 
may, instead of carrying out all the customer due diligence measures, carry out only the measures set out in section 
2(1)(a), (ab), (c) and (d) of this Schedule in relation to a customer if the financial institution or the DNFBP has 
reasonable grounds to believe that the product related to the transaction falls within subsection (5). (Amended 4 of 
2018 s. 26; 15 of 2022 s. 33) (5) The product is— (a) a provident, pension, retirement or superannuation scheme 
(however described) that provides retirement benefits to employees, where contributions to the scheme are made by way 
of deduction from income from employment and the scheme rules do not permit the assignment of a member’s interest under
the scheme; (b) an insurance policy for the purposes of a provident, pension, retirement or superannuation scheme 
(however described) that does not contain a surrender clause and cannot be used as a collateral;

---

[1] to the Securities and Futures Ordinance (Cap. 571).
s. 26; 15 of 2022 s. 33) (a) further verifying the customer’s identity on the basis of documents, data or information 
referred to in section 2(1)(a) or (ab) of this Schedule but not previously used for the purposes of verification of the
customer’s identity under that section; (b) taking supplementary measures to verify information relating to the 
customer that has been obtained by the financial institution or the DNFBP; (c) ensuring that the payment or, if there 
is more than one payment, the first payment made in relation to the customer’s account is carried out through an 
account opened in the customer’s name with— (i) an authorized institution; or (ii) an institution that— (A) is 
incorporated or established in an equivalent jurisdiction; (B) carries on a business similar to that carried on by an 
authorized institution; (C) has measures in place to ensure compliance with requirements similar to those imposed under
this Schedule; and (D) is supervised for compliance with those requirements by authorities in that jurisdiction that 
perform functions similar to those of the Monetary Authority. (2) Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to a 
customer of a financial institution or a DNFBP if the financial institution or the DNFBP has carried out the measure 
referred to in section 2(1)(a) or (ab) of this Schedule in relation to the customer on the basis of data or information
provided by a recognized digital identification system. (Added 15 of 2022 s. 33) (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) 10. Special 
requirements when customer is politically exposed person (1) If a financial institution or a DNFBP knows, from publicly
known information or information in the financial institution’s or the DNFBP’s possession, that a customer or a 
beneficial owner of a customer is a politically exposed person, the financial institution or the DNFBP must, before 
establishing a business relationship with the customer— (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) (a) obtain approval from the senior 
management; and (b) take reasonable measures to establish the customer’s or beneficial owner’s source of wealth and the
source of the funds that will be involved in the proposed business relationship. (2) If a financial institution or a 
DNFBP comes to know, from publicly known information or information in the financial institution’s or the DNFBP’s 
possession, that an existing customer or a beneficial owner of an existing customer is a politically exposed person or 
has become a politically exposed person, the financial institution or the DNFBP must not continue its business 
relationship with the customer unless the financial institution or the DNFBP— (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) (a) has 
obtained approval from the senior management; and (b) has taken reasonable measures to establish the customer’s or 
beneficial owner’s source of wealth and the source of the funds that are involved in the business relationship. (3) 
Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply in relation to a customer or a beneficial owner of a customer of a financial 
institution or a DNFBP if the financial institution or the DNFBP is satisfied that— (a) the customer or the beneficial 
owner of the customer is a former politically exposed person; and (b) the former politically exposed person does not 
present a high risk of money laundering or terrorist financing based on an appropriate risk assessment. (Added 15 of 
2022 s. 33) (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) 11. Special requirements for insurance policies (1) A financial institution must,
whenever a beneficiary or a new beneficiary is identified or designated by the policy holder of an insurance policy— 
(a) if the beneficiary is identified by name, record the name of the beneficiary; (b) if the beneficiary is designated 
by description or other means, obtain sufficient information about the beneficiary to satisfy itself that it will be 
able to establish the identity of the beneficiary— (i) at the time the beneficiary exercises a right vested in the 
beneficiary under the insurance policy; or (ii) at the time of payout or, if there is more than one payout, the time of
the first payout to the beneficiary in accordance with the terms of the insurance policy, whichever is the earlier. (2)
A financial institution must carry out the measures specified in subsection (3)— (a) at the time a beneficiary 
exercises a right vested in the beneficiary under an insurance policy; or (b) at the time of payout or, if there is 
more than one payout, the time of the first payout to a beneficiary in accordance with the terms of an insurance 
policy, whichever is the earlier. (3) The specified measures are— (a) verifying the beneficiary’s identity on the basis
of documents, data or information provided by— (i) a governmental body; (ii) the relevant authority or any other 
relevant authority; (iii) an authority in a place outside Hong Kong that performs functions similar to those of the 
relevant authority or any other relevant authority; or (iv) any other reliable and independent source that is 
recognized by the relevant authority; and (b) where the beneficiary is a legal person or trust— (i) identifying its 
beneficial owners; and (ii) if there is a high risk of money laundering or terrorist financing having regard to the 
particular circumstances of the beneficial owners, taking reasonable measures to verify the beneficial owners’ 
identities so that the financial institution knows who the beneficial owners are. 12. Special requirements for wire 
transfers (1) (Repealed 4 of 2018 s. 26) (2) This section does not apply to the following wire transfers— (a) a wire 
transfer between two financial institutions if each of them acts on its own behalf; (b) a wire transfer between a 
financial institution and a foreign institution if each of them acts on its own behalf; (c) a wire transfer if— (i) it 
arises from a transaction that is carried out using a credit card, debit card or prepaid card such as— (A) withdrawing 
money from a bank account through an automated teller machine with a debit card; (B) obtaining a cash advance on a 
credit card; or (C) paying for goods or services with a credit card, debit card or prepaid card; (ii) the card is not 
used as a payment system to effect a person-to-person transfer; and (iii) the number (or equivalent unique identifier) 
of the credit card, debit card or prepaid card is included in the message or payment form accompanying the transfer. 
(Replaced 15 of 2022 s. 33) (3) Subject to subsection (3A), before carrying out a wire transfer, a financial 
institution that is an ordering institution must record— (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) (a) the originator’s name; (b) the 
number of the originator’s account maintained with the financial institution and from which the money for the wire 
transfer is paid or, in the absence of such an account, a unique reference number assigned to the wire transfer by the 
financial institution; (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) (c) the originator’s address, the originator’s customer identification
number or identification document number or, if the originator is an individual, the originator’s date and place of 
birth; (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) (d) the recipient’s name; and (Added 4 of 2018 s. 26) (e) the number of the 
recipient’s account maintained with the beneficiary

---

[2]
2 || (Replaced 4 of 2018 s. 26. Amended 15 of 2022 s. 33) Requirements Relating to Customer Due Diligence and 
Record-keeping Part 1 Interpretation 1. Interpretation (1) In this Schedule— beneficial owner (實益擁有人)— (a) in 
relation to a corporation— (i) means an individual who— (A) owns or controls, directly or indirectly, including through
a trust or bearer share holding, more than 25% of the issued share capital of the corporation; (B) is, directly or 
indirectly, entitled to exercise or control the exercise of more than 25% of the voting rights at general meetings of 
the corporation; or (C) exercises ultimate control over the management of the corporation; or (ii) if the corporation 
is acting on behalf of another person, means the other person; (b) in relation to a partnership— (i) means an 
individual who— (A) is entitled to or controls, directly or indirectly, more than a 25% share of the capital or profits
of the partnership; (B) is, directly or indirectly, entitled to exercise or control the exercise of more than 25% of 
the voting rights in the partnership; or (C) exercises ultimate control over the management of the partnership; or (ii)
if the partnership is acting on behalf of another person, means the other person; (c) in relation to a trust, means— 
(i) a beneficiary or a class of beneficiaries of the trust entitled to a vested interest in the trust property, whether
the interest is in possession or in remainder or reversion and whether it is defeasible or not; (Amended 15 of 2022 s. 
33) (ii) the settlor of the trust; (iia) the trustee of the trust; (Added 15 of 2022 s. 33) (iii) a protector or 
enforcer of the trust; or (iv) an individual who has ultimate control over the trust; and (d) in relation to a person 
not falling within paragraph (a), (b) or (c)— (i) means an individual who ultimately owns or controls the person; or 
(ii) if the person is acting on behalf of another person, means the other person; (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) business 
relationship (業務關係), as between a person and a financial institution or a DNFBP, means a business, professional or 
commercial relationship— (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) (a) that has an element of duration; or (b) that the financial 
institution or the DNFBP, at the time the person first contacts the financial institution or the DNFBP in the person’s 
capacity as a potential customer of the financial institution or the DNFBP, expects to have an element of duration; 
(Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) correspondent banking (代理銀行服務) means the provision of banking services by an authorized
institution to another institution to enable the latter to provide services and products to its own customers; customer
due diligence measures (客戶盡職審查措施) means the measures set out in section 2(1) of this Schedule; equivalent 
jurisdiction (對等司法管轄區) means— (a) a jurisdiction that is a member of the Financial Action Task Force, other than
Hong Kong; or (b) a jurisdiction that imposes requirements similar to those imposed under this Schedule; Financial 
Action Task Force (財務行動特別組織) means the Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering established by the G-7 
Summit held in Paris in 1989; (Replaced 4 of 2018 s. 26) former politically exposed person (前政治人物) means— (a) an 
individual who, being a politically exposed person, has been but is not currently entrusted with a prominent public 
function in a place outside Hong Kong; (b) a spouse, a partner, a child or a parent of an individual falling within 
paragraph (a), or a spouse or a partner of a child of such an individual; or (c) a close associate of an individual 
falling within paragraph (a); (Added 15 of 2022 s. 33) identification document (識別文件)— (a) in relation to an 
individual, means his or her identity card, certificate of identity, document of identity or travel document, as 
defined by section 2(1) of the Immigration Ordinance (Cap. 115); (b) in relation to a company as defined by section 
2(1) of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622), means— (Amended 14 of 2025 s. 273) (i) the certificate of incorporation 
issued in respect of the company under the Ordinance under which the company was formed and registered; or (ii) the 
certificate of re-domiciliation issued in respect of the company under section 820C(5)(c) of the Companies Ordinance 
(Cap. 622); (Amended 14 of 2025 s. 273) (c) in relation to a registered non-Hong Kong company, means the certificate of
registration issued in respect of the company under the Ordinance under which the company was registered as a 
registered non-Hong Kong company; (Replaced 28 of 2012 ss. 912 & 920. Amended 14 of 2025 s. 273) (d) in relation to a 
corporation that is incorporated in a place outside Hong Kong and that is neither a re-domiciled company nor a company 
falling within paragraph (c), means its certificate of incorporation or registration, or any other document evidencing 
its incorporation, issued by an authority in that place that performs functions similar to those of the Registrar of 
Companies; (Amended 14 of 2025 s. 273) (e) in relation to a partnership that carries on business in Hong Kong, means 
its business registration certificate issued under section 6 of the Business Registration Ordinance (Cap. 310); and (f)
in relation to a partnership that does not carry on business in Hong Kong, means its partnership agreement or any 
document evidencing its formation or registration issued by a governmental body; legal person (法人) includes any 
public body and any body of persons, corporate or unincorporate; occasional transaction (非經常交易) means a 
transaction between a financial institution or a DNFBP and a customer who does not have a business relationship with 
the financial institution or the DNFBP; (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) politically exposed person (政治人物) means— (a) an 
individual who is or has been entrusted with a prominent public function in a place outside Hong Kong and— (Amended 15 
of 2022 s. 33) (i) includes a head of state, head of government, senior politician, senior government, judicial or 
military official, senior executive of a state-owned corporation and an important political party official; but (ii) 
does not include a middle-ranking or more junior official of any of the categories mentioned in subparagraph (i); (b) a
spouse, a partner, a child or a parent of an individual falling within paragraph (a), or a spouse or a partner of a 
child of such an individual; or (c) a close associate of an individual falling within paragraph (a); pre-existing 
customer (先前客户)— (a) in relation to a financial institution other than a licensed VAS provider—means a customer 
with whom the financial institution has established a business relationship before 1 April 2012; (b) in relation to a 
licensed VAS provider—means a customer with whom the licensed VAS provider has established a business relationship 
before 1 June 2023; (c) in relation to a DNFBP other than a Category B PMS registrant—means a customer with whom the 
DNFBP has established a business relationship before 1 March 2018; or (d) in relation to a Category B PMS 
registrant—means a customer with whom the registrant has established a business relationship before 1 April 2023; 
(Replaced 15 of 2022 s.

---

[1] to the Securities and Futures Ordinance (Cap. 571).
relationship has been established— (i) obtain approval from the senior management to continue the business 
relationship; (ii) if there is a beneficial owner in relation to the relevant customer, take reasonable measures to 
verify the beneficial owner’s identity so that the financial institution or the DNFBP is satisfied that the financial 
institution or the DNFBP knows who the beneficial owner is; and (iii) either— (A) take reasonable measures to establish
the relevant customer’s or beneficial owner’s source of wealth and the source of the funds that are involved in the 
business relationship; or (B) take additional measures to mitigate the risk of money laundering or terrorist financing 
involved; or (c) where an occasional transaction is to be carried out, take additional measures to mitigate the risk of
money laundering or terrorist financing involved. (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) Division 3—Prohibitions 16. Anonymous 
accounts etc. A financial institution or a DNFBP must not open, or maintain, any anonymous account or account in a 
fictitious name for any customer. (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) 17. Correspondent banking relationships with shell banks 
(1) An authorized institution must not establish or continue a correspondent banking relationship with a corporation 
that— (a) is incorporated in a place outside Hong Kong; (b) is authorized to carry on banking business in that place; 
(c) does not have a physical presence in that place; and (d) is not an affiliate of a corporation that— (i) is 
incorporated in a particular jurisdiction; (ii) is authorized to carry on banking business in that jurisdiction; and 
(iii) has a physical presence in that jurisdiction. (2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(c) and (d)(iii), a 
corporation has a physical presence in a place or jurisdiction if— (a) the corporation carries on banking business at 
any premises in that place or jurisdiction; and (b) at least one full-time employee of the corporation performs 
banking-related duties at those premises. (3) For the purposes of subsection (1)(d), a corporation is an affiliate of 
another corporation if— (a) the corporation is a subsidiary of the other corporation; or (b) at least one individual 
who is a controller of the corporation is at the same time a controller of the other corporation. (4) In this section— 
associate (相關者), in relation to a person entitled to exercise, or control the exercise of, voting rights in relation
to, or holding shares in, a corporation, means any other person in respect of whom that first-mentioned person has an 
agreement or arrangement, whether oral or in writing, express or implied, with respect to the acquisition, holding or 
disposal of shares or other interests in that corporation or under which they act together in exercising their voting 
rights in relation to it; controller (控制人), in relation to a corporation, means— (a) a person in accordance with 
whose directions or instructions the directors of the corporation, or of another corporation of which it is a 
subsidiary, are accustomed to act, but does not include any person in accordance with whose directions and instructions
those directors are accustomed to act by reason only that they act on advice given by the person in his or her 
professional capacity; or (b) a person who, either alone or with any associate or associates, is entitled to exercise, 
or control the exercise of, more than 50% of the voting rights at any general meeting of the corporation or of another 
corporation of which it is a subsidiary; subsidiary (附屬公司) has the same meaning as in the Companies Ordinance (Cap.
622). (Amended 28 of 2012 ss. 912 & 920) Division 4—Miscellaneous 18. Carrying out customer due diligence measures by 
means of intermediaries (1) Subject to subsection (2), a financial institution or a DNFBP may carry out any customer 
due diligence measure by means of an intermediary specified in subsection (3) if— (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) (a) the 
intermediary consents in writing to be the financial institution’s or the DNFBP’s intermediary; and (b) the financial 
institution or the DNFBP is satisfied that the intermediary will on request provide a copy of any document, or a record
of any data or information, obtained by the intermediary in the course of carrying out the customer due diligence 
measure without delay. (2) A financial institution or a DNFBP that carries out a customer due diligence measure by 
means of an intermediary remains liable under this Ordinance for a failure to carry out that customer due diligence 
measure. (3) The specified intermediary is— (a) any of the following persons who is able to satisfy the financial 
institution or the DNFBP that they have adequate procedures in place to prevent money laundering and terrorist 
financing— (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) (i) an accounting professional; (Replaced 4 of 2018 s. 26) (ii) an estate agent; 
(Replaced 4 of 2018 s. 26) (iii) a legal professional; (Replaced 4 of 2018 s. 26) (iv) a TCSP licensee; (Replaced 4 of 
2018 s. 26) (b) a financial institution that is an authorized institution, a licensed corporation, an authorized 
insurer, a licensed individual insurance agent, licensed insurance agency or licensed insurance broker company; 
(Amended 12 of 2015 s. 163) (c) a lawyer, a notary public, an auditor, a professional accountant, a trust or company 
service provider or a tax advisor practising in an equivalent jurisdiction, or a trust company carrying on trust 
business in an equivalent jurisdiction, or a person who carries on in an equivalent jurisdiction a business similar to 
that carried on by an estate agent, or an institution that carries on in an equivalent jurisdiction a business similar 
to that carried on by an intermediary financial institution, that— (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) (i) is required under the 
law of that jurisdiction to be registered or licensed or is regulated under the law of that jurisdiction; (ii) has 
measures in place to ensure compliance with requirements similar to those imposed under this Schedule; and (iii) is 
supervised for compliance with those requirements by an authority in that jurisdiction that performs functions similar 
to those of any of the relevant authorities or the regulatory bodies (as may be applicable); or (d) in the case of a 
financial institution, an institution that— (i) is a related foreign financial institution in relation to the financial
institution; and (ii) satisfies the conditions in subsection (3A). (Added 4 of 2018 s. 26) (3A) The conditions are 
that— (a) the related foreign financial institution is required under group policy— (i) to have measures in place to 
ensure compliance with requirements similar to the requirements imposed under this Schedule; and (ii) to implement 
programmes against money laundering and terrorist financing; and (b) the related foreign financial institution is 
supervised for compliance with the requirements mentioned in paragraph (a) at a group level— (i) by a relevant 
authority; or (ii) by an authority in an equivalent jurisdiction that performs, in relation to the holding company or 
the head office of the financial institution, functions similar to those of a relevant authority under this Ordinance. 
(Added 4 of 2018 s. 26) (4) A financial institution or a DNFBP that carries out a customer due diligence measure by 
means of an intermediary must— (Amended 4 of 2018 s. 26) (a)

For each major section provided, analyze carefully, classify, and explain each clause using this JSON shape:
[
  {{
    "provision": "<section or schedule citation>",
    "severity": "Very High|High|Medium",
    "reinforcement_type": "Must-have|Must-not-have",
    "compliance_objective": "<brief objective>",
    "feasibility": "On-chain|Off-chain|Hybrid",
    "explanation": "<concise but precise mapping to the law>",
    "erc_3643": "<suggested modules/functions>"
  }}
]
Rules:
- Answer only from the provided context; do not invent text outside it.
- Avoid hypothetical clauses or those requiring subjective judgment.
- Keep language aligned with Cap. 615 wording; make it readable for non-technical reviewers.
- If no enforceable obligation is present in the context, return an empty list.

Return ONLY valid JSON.
